simulator.portfolio
===================

.. py:module:: simulator.portfolio


Classes
-------

.. autoapisummary::

   simulator.portfolio.Portfolio


Module Contents
---------------

.. py:class:: Portfolio

   .. py:attribute:: prices
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame


   .. py:attribute:: units
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame


   .. py:attribute:: aum
      :type:  float | pandas.Series


   .. py:method:: __post_init__() -> None

      A class method that performs input validation after object initialization.
      Notes: The post_init method is called after an instance of the Portfolio
      class has been initialized, and performs a series of input validation
      checks to ensure that the prices and units dataframes are in the
      expected format with no duplicates or missing data,
      and that the units dataframe represents valid equity positions
      for the assets held in the portfolio.
      Specifically, the method checks that both the prices and units dataframes
      have a monotonic increasing and unique index,
      and that the index and columns of the units dataframe are subsets
      of the index and columns of the prices dataframe, respectively.
      If any of these checks fail, an assertion error will be raised.



   .. py:property:: index
      :type: pandas.DatetimeIndex


      A property that returns the index of the EquityPortfolio instance,
      which is the time period for which the portfolio data is available.

      Returns: pd.Index: A pandas index representing the time period for which the
      portfolio data is available.

      Notes: The function extracts the index of the prices dataframe,
      which represents the time periods for which data is available for the portfolio.
      The resulting index will be a pandas index object with the same length
      as the number of rows in the prices dataframe.


   .. py:property:: assets
      :type: pandas.Index


      A property that returns a list of the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.

      Returns: list: A list of the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.

      Notes: The function extracts the column names of the prices dataframe,
      which correspond to the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.
      The resulting list will contain the names of all assets held by the portfolio, without any duplicates.


   .. py:property:: nav
      :type: pandas.Series


      Return a pandas series representing the NAV


   .. py:property:: profit
      :type: pandas.Series


      A property that returns a pandas series representing the
      profit gained or lost in the portfolio based on changes in asset prices.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the profit
      gained or lost in the portfolio based on changes in asset prices.


   .. py:property:: highwater
      :type: pandas.Series


      A function that returns a pandas series representing
      the high-water mark of the portfolio, which is the highest point
      the portfolio value has reached over time.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the
      high-water mark of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function performs a rolling computation based on
      the cumulative maximum of the portfolio's value over time,
      starting from the beginning of the time period being considered.
      Min_periods argument is set to 1 to include the minimum period of one day.
      The resulting series will show the highest value the portfolio has reached at each point in time.


   .. py:property:: drawdown
      :type: pandas.Series


      A property that returns a pandas series representing the
      drawdown of the portfolio, which measures the decline
      in the portfolio's value from its (previously) highest
      point to its current point.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the
      drawdown of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the ratio of the portfolio's current value
      vs. its current high-water-mark and then subtracting the result from 1.
      A positive drawdown means the portfolio is currently worth
      less than its high-water mark. A drawdown of 0.1 implies that the nav is currently 0.9 times the high-water mark


   .. py:property:: cashposition

      Return a pandas dataframe representing the cash position


   .. py:property:: returns

      The returns property exposes the returns of the individual assets


   .. py:property:: trades_units
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of units.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of units.

      Notes: The function calculates the trades made by the portfolio by taking
      the difference between the current and previous values of the units dataframe.
      The resulting values will represent the number of shares of each asset
      bought or sold by the portfolio at each point in time.
      The resulting dataframe will have the same dimensions
      as the units dataframe, with NaN values filled with zeros.


   .. py:property:: trades_currency
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing
      the trades made in the portfolio in terms of currency.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of currency.

      Notes: The function calculates the trades made in currency by multiplying
      the number of shares of each asset bought or sold (as represented in the trades_units dataframe)
      with the current prices of each asset (as represented in the prices dataframe).
      The resulting dataframe will have the same dimensions as the units and prices dataframes.


   .. py:property:: turnover_relative
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing the turnover
      relative to the NAV. Can be positive (if bought) or negative (if sold).


   .. py:property:: turnover
      :type: pandas.DataFrame



   .. py:method:: __getitem__(time: datetime.datetime) -> pandas.Series

      The `__getitem__` method retrieves the stock data for a specific time in the dataframe.
      It returns the stock data for that time.

      The method takes one input parameter:
      - `time`: the time index for which to retrieve the stock data

      Returns:
      - stock data for the input time

      Note that the input time must be in the index of the dataframe,
      otherwise a KeyError will be raised.



   .. py:property:: equity
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe
      representing the equity positions of the portfolio,
      which is the value of each asset held by the portfolio.
      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing
      the equity positions of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the equity of the portfolio
      by multiplying the current prices of each asset
      by the number of shares held by the portfolio.
      The equity dataframe will have the same dimensions
      as the prices and units dataframes.


   .. py:property:: weights
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing
      the weights of various assets in the portfolio.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the weights
      of various assets in the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the weights of various assets
      in the portfolio by dividing the equity positions
      for each asset (as represented in the equity dataframe)
      by the total portfolio value (as represented in the nav dataframe).
      Both dataframes are assumed to have the same dimensions.
      The resulting dataframe will show the relative weight
      of each asset in the portfolio at each point in time.


   .. py:method:: snapshot(benchmark: Any = None, title: str = 'Portfolio Summary', table: pandas.DataFrame = None, aggregate: bool = False, log_scale: bool = False, label_strategy: str = 'Strategy', label_benchmark: str = 'Benchmark') -> Any

      The snapshot method creates a snapshot of the performance of a Portfolio object.



   .. py:method:: sharpe(n=None)

      Simple Sharpe ratio



   .. py:method:: from_cashpos_prices(prices: pandas.DataFrame, cashposition: pandas.DataFrame, aum: float)
      :classmethod:


      Build Futures Portfolio from cashposition



   .. py:method:: from_cashpos_returns(returns: pandas.DataFrame, cashposition: pandas.DataFrame, aum: float)
      :classmethod:


      Build Futures Portfolio from cashposition



