simulator
=========

.. py:module:: simulator


Submodules
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   /autoapi/simulator/builder/index
   /autoapi/simulator/portfolio/index
   /autoapi/simulator/state/index
   /autoapi/simulator/utils/index


Classes
-------

.. autoapisummary::

   simulator.Builder
   simulator.Portfolio
   simulator.State


Functions
---------

.. autoapisummary::

   simulator.interpolate


Package Contents
----------------

.. py:class:: Builder

   The Builder is an auxiliary class used to build portfolios.
   It overloads the __iter__ method to allow the class to iterate over
   the timestamps for which the portfolio data is available.

   In each iteration we can update the portfolio by setting either
   the weights, the position or the cash position.

   After the iteration has been completed we build a Portfolio object
   by calling the build method.


   .. py:attribute:: prices
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame


   .. py:attribute:: initial_aum
      :type:  float
      :value: 1000000.0



   .. py:attribute:: _state
      :type:  simulator.state.State
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _units
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _aum
      :type:  pandas.Series
      :value: None



   .. py:method:: __post_init__() -> None

      The __post_init__ method is a special method of initialized instances
      of the _Builder class and is called after initialization.
      It sets the initial amount of cash in the portfolio to be equal to the input initial_cash parameter.

      The method takes no input parameter. It initializes the cash attribute in the internal
      _State object with the initial amount of cash in the portfolio, self.initial_cash.

      Note that this method is often used in Python classes for additional initialization routines
      that can only be performed after the object is fully initialized. __post_init__
      is called automatically after the object initialization.



   .. py:property:: valid

      Analyse the validity of the data
      Do it column by column of the prices


   .. py:property:: intervals

      Find for each column the first and the last valid index


   .. py:property:: index
      :type: pandas.DatetimeIndex


      A property that returns the index of the portfolio,
      which are the timestamps for which the portfolio data is available.

      Returns: pd.Index: A pandas index representing the
      time period for which the portfolio data is available.


   .. py:property:: current_prices
      :type: numpy.array


      Get the current prices from the state


   .. py:method:: __iter__() -> Generator[tuple[pandas.DatetimeIndex, simulator.state.State], None, None]

      The __iter__ method allows the object to be iterated over in a for loop,
      yielding time and the current state of the portfolio.
      The method yields a list of dates seen so far and returns a tuple
      containing the list of dates and the current portfolio state.

      Yield:

      time: a pandas DatetimeIndex object containing the dates seen so far.
      state: the current state of the portfolio,

      taking into account the stock prices at each interval.



   .. py:property:: position
      :type: pandas.Series


      The position property returns the current position of the portfolio.
      It returns a pandas Series object containing the current position of the portfolio.

      Returns: pd.Series: a pandas Series object containing the current position of the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: cashposition

      The cashposition property returns the current cash position of the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: units

      The units property returns the frame of holdings of the portfolio.
      Useful mainly for testing


   .. py:method:: build()

      A function that creates a new instance of the EquityPortfolio
      class based on the internal state of the Portfolio builder object.

      Returns: EquityPortfolio: A new instance of the EquityPortfolio class
      with the attributes (prices, units, initial_cash, trading_cost_model) as specified in the Portfolio builder.

      Notes: The function simply creates a new instance of the EquityPortfolio
      class with the attributes (prices, units, initial_cash, trading_cost_model) equal
      to the corresponding attributes in the Portfolio builder object.
      The resulting EquityPortfolio object will have the same state as the Portfolio builder from which it was built.



   .. py:property:: weights
      :type: numpy.array


      Get the current weights from the state


   .. py:property:: aum

      The aum property returns the current AUM of the portfolio.


   .. py:method:: from_returns(returns)
      :classmethod:


      Build Futures Portfolio from returns



.. py:class:: Portfolio

   .. py:attribute:: prices
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame


   .. py:attribute:: units
      :type:  pandas.DataFrame


   .. py:attribute:: aum
      :type:  float | pandas.Series


   .. py:method:: __post_init__() -> None

      A class method that performs input validation after object initialization.
      Notes: The post_init method is called after an instance of the Portfolio
      class has been initialized, and performs a series of input validation
      checks to ensure that the prices and units dataframes are in the
      expected format with no duplicates or missing data,
      and that the units dataframe represents valid equity positions
      for the assets held in the portfolio.
      Specifically, the method checks that both the prices and units dataframes
      have a monotonic increasing and unique index,
      and that the index and columns of the units dataframe are subsets
      of the index and columns of the prices dataframe, respectively.
      If any of these checks fail, an assertion error will be raised.



   .. py:property:: index
      :type: pandas.DatetimeIndex


      A property that returns the index of the EquityPortfolio instance,
      which is the time period for which the portfolio data is available.

      Returns: pd.Index: A pandas index representing the time period for which the
      portfolio data is available.

      Notes: The function extracts the index of the prices dataframe,
      which represents the time periods for which data is available for the portfolio.
      The resulting index will be a pandas index object with the same length
      as the number of rows in the prices dataframe.


   .. py:property:: assets
      :type: pandas.Index


      A property that returns a list of the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.

      Returns: list: A list of the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.

      Notes: The function extracts the column names of the prices dataframe,
      which correspond to the assets held by the EquityPortfolio object.
      The resulting list will contain the names of all assets held by the portfolio, without any duplicates.


   .. py:property:: nav
      :type: pandas.Series


      Return a pandas series representing the NAV


   .. py:property:: profit
      :type: pandas.Series


      A property that returns a pandas series representing the
      profit gained or lost in the portfolio based on changes in asset prices.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the profit
      gained or lost in the portfolio based on changes in asset prices.


   .. py:property:: highwater
      :type: pandas.Series


      A function that returns a pandas series representing
      the high-water mark of the portfolio, which is the highest point
      the portfolio value has reached over time.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the
      high-water mark of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function performs a rolling computation based on
      the cumulative maximum of the portfolio's value over time,
      starting from the beginning of the time period being considered.
      Min_periods argument is set to 1 to include the minimum period of one day.
      The resulting series will show the highest value the portfolio has reached at each point in time.


   .. py:property:: drawdown
      :type: pandas.Series


      A property that returns a pandas series representing the
      drawdown of the portfolio, which measures the decline
      in the portfolio's value from its (previously) highest
      point to its current point.

      Returns: pd.Series: A pandas series representing the
      drawdown of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the ratio of the portfolio's current value
      vs. its current high-water-mark and then subtracting the result from 1.
      A positive drawdown means the portfolio is currently worth
      less than its high-water mark. A drawdown of 0.1 implies that the nav is currently 0.9 times the high-water mark


   .. py:property:: cashposition

      Return a pandas dataframe representing the cash position


   .. py:property:: returns

      The returns property exposes the returns of the individual assets


   .. py:property:: trades_units
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of units.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of units.

      Notes: The function calculates the trades made by the portfolio by taking
      the difference between the current and previous values of the units dataframe.
      The resulting values will represent the number of shares of each asset
      bought or sold by the portfolio at each point in time.
      The resulting dataframe will have the same dimensions
      as the units dataframe, with NaN values filled with zeros.


   .. py:property:: trades_currency
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing
      the trades made in the portfolio in terms of currency.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the trades made in the portfolio in terms of currency.

      Notes: The function calculates the trades made in currency by multiplying
      the number of shares of each asset bought or sold (as represented in the trades_units dataframe)
      with the current prices of each asset (as represented in the prices dataframe).
      The resulting dataframe will have the same dimensions as the units and prices dataframes.


   .. py:property:: turnover_relative
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing the turnover
      relative to the NAV. Can be positive (if bought) or negative (if sold).


   .. py:property:: turnover
      :type: pandas.DataFrame



   .. py:method:: __getitem__(time: datetime.datetime) -> pandas.Series

      The `__getitem__` method retrieves the stock data for a specific time in the dataframe.
      It returns the stock data for that time.

      The method takes one input parameter:
      - `time`: the time index for which to retrieve the stock data

      Returns:
      - stock data for the input time

      Note that the input time must be in the index of the dataframe,
      otherwise a KeyError will be raised.



   .. py:property:: equity
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe
      representing the equity positions of the portfolio,
      which is the value of each asset held by the portfolio.
      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing
      the equity positions of the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the equity of the portfolio
      by multiplying the current prices of each asset
      by the number of shares held by the portfolio.
      The equity dataframe will have the same dimensions
      as the prices and units dataframes.


   .. py:property:: weights
      :type: pandas.DataFrame


      A property that returns a pandas dataframe representing
      the weights of various assets in the portfolio.

      Returns: pd.DataFrame: A pandas dataframe representing the weights
      of various assets in the portfolio.

      Notes: The function calculates the weights of various assets
      in the portfolio by dividing the equity positions
      for each asset (as represented in the equity dataframe)
      by the total portfolio value (as represented in the nav dataframe).
      Both dataframes are assumed to have the same dimensions.
      The resulting dataframe will show the relative weight
      of each asset in the portfolio at each point in time.


   .. py:method:: snapshot(benchmark: Any = None, title: str = 'Portfolio Summary', table: pandas.DataFrame = None, aggregate: bool = False, log_scale: bool = False, label_strategy: str = 'Strategy', label_benchmark: str = 'Benchmark') -> Any

      The snapshot method creates a snapshot of the performance of a Portfolio object.



   .. py:method:: sharpe(n=None)

      Simple Sharpe ratio



   .. py:method:: from_cashpos_prices(prices: pandas.DataFrame, cashposition: pandas.DataFrame, aum: float)
      :classmethod:


      Build Futures Portfolio from cashposition



   .. py:method:: from_cashpos_returns(returns: pandas.DataFrame, cashposition: pandas.DataFrame, aum: float)
      :classmethod:


      Build Futures Portfolio from cashposition



.. py:class:: State

   The state class represents the current state of a portfolio.
   It is updated within in a loop by the builder class.
   It has setter functions only for the aum, the cash, the position and the prices


   .. py:attribute:: _prices
      :type:  pandas.Series
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _position
      :type:  pandas.Series
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _trades
      :type:  pandas.Series
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _time
      :type:  datetime.datetime
      :value: None



   .. py:attribute:: _days
      :type:  int
      :value: 0



   .. py:attribute:: _profit
      :type:  float
      :value: 0.0



   .. py:attribute:: _aum
      :type:  float
      :value: 0.0



   .. py:property:: cash

      The cash property returns the current amount of cash available in the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: nav
      :type: float


      The nav property computes the net asset value (NAV) of the portfolio,
      which is the sum of the current value of the
      portfolio as determined by the value property,
      and the current amount of cash available in the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: value
      :type: float


      The value property computes the value of the portfolio at the current
      time taking into account the current holdings and current prices.
      If the value cannot be computed due to missing positions
      (they might be still None), zero is returned instead.


   .. py:property:: cashposition

      The `cashposition` property computes the cash position of the portfolio,
      which is the amount of cash in the portfolio as a fraction of the total portfolio value.


   .. py:property:: position

      Get the current position. If the position is not yet set, then return an empty series.


   .. py:property:: gmv

      gross market value, e.g. abs(short) + long


   .. py:property:: time

      The time property returns the current time of the state.


   .. py:property:: days

      Number of days between the current and the previous time. Most useful
      for computing the interest when holding cash.


   .. py:property:: assets
      :type: pandas.Index


      The assets property returns the assets currently in the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: trades

      The trades property returns the trades currently needed to reach the position.
      Most helpful when computing the trading costs following the move to
      a new position.


   .. py:property:: mask

      construct true/false mask for assets with missing prices


   .. py:property:: prices

      Get the current prices


   .. py:property:: profit

      Following the price update the state updates the profit achieved
      between the previous and the current prices.


   .. py:property:: aum

      The aum property returns the current assets under management (AUM) of the portfolio.


   .. py:property:: weights
      :type: pandas.Series


      The weights property computes the weighting of each asset in the current
      portfolio as a fraction of the total portfolio value (nav).

      Returns:

      a pandas series object containing the weighting of each asset as a
      fraction of the total portfolio value. If the positions are still
      missing, then a series of zeroes is returned.


   .. py:property:: leverage
      :type: float


      The `leverage` property computes the leverage of the portfolio,
      which is the sum of the absolute values of the portfolio weights.


.. py:function:: interpolate(ts)

   interpolate


